- [Instructor] Digital signatures are a very powerful
construct when dealing with the Java crypto libraries,
and I wanna spend a little bit of time
and talk about digital signatures and how they're used
and what their purposes are.
Before we get too deep into that,
let's talk about what a digital signature actually is.
Essentially, it's an asymmetrically encrypted hash
of a digital payload.
Now, what does that really mean?
Essentially, we get a bunch of bytes,
using the private key, they can then be verified
by decrypting using the public key
and then comparing the hashes.
This is essentially a value that can provide a guarantee
of authenticity.
So, if I send you a message with a digital signature
and you use my public key to verify the signature,
you are guaranteed that that message came from me.
Likewise, this value can be used
to provide a mechanism of nonrepudiation,
essentially saying that you got the message from me.
There is no way for me to then say that I didn't send it
because by using the digital signature,
you guarantee that the signature was created
with my private key, and as long as that key is private,
there's no way that anybody else could've generated
that digital signature.
And finally, it's a value that can provide a guarantee
of integrity, and often we see this with the downloading
of binaries from the internet onto people's computers.
By using a digital signature with that download,
you can guarantee that the file was not manipulated
as long as you use my public key to verify the hash
because the hash that you compute will be the same
as the hash that I computed and then encrypted.
Now, how is a digital signature calculated?
We start with an asymmetric key pair.
Now, in our examples, we're gonna use RSA,
but often, this is done with elliptical curve cryptography,
especially in IoT devices.
Then I'm gonna take the digital payload
and I'm gonna create a hash of that.
Often, we'll use something like SHA-256 because of its speed
and it also is a cryptographically secure hash.
We will then encrypt that hash
with the private key from the asymmetric key pair.
Now, because I'm going to publish my public key,
you will take the digital signature and the binary,
you will decrypt the digital signature
as well as hash the binary,
and then compare those two hashes to ensure
that they are indeed the same.
So, let's talk about that from a real-world perspective.
So, from the Alice and Bob example,
Alice will calculate a hash of her message.
Alice then encrypts that hash using her private key
and sends the signature in the message to Bob.
Bob also then hashes the message.
Bob then decrypts the signature with Alice's public key
and compares the two hashes.
Now, I'm kinda going over this a few times
because this is one of the areas in crypto
where I feel that people get very confused, very quick
because we're dealing with hashes
and public key encryption.
So, it really is important to understand the flow
so that you don't get false results downstream
because you're using the wrong pieces of data
in order to either create the digital signature
or verify its validity.
Now, I do wanna talk a little bit about some real-life uses
and some of these I've actually encountered in
my day-to-day life and work.
The first is binary program signing.
I mentioned a little bit about IoT devices,
and often hardware programs in general will have a process
by which digitally signed binaries get uploaded
as part of the firmware upgrade process
and the only way that the device will accept those binaries
is if they are signed by a trusted authority,
be it the vendor that actually created them.
So, binary programs use signing
for both authenticity and integrity
to ensure that someone hasn't modified that data.
It's also used a lot for message signing,
especially around legal and financial documentation.
It allows us to get nonrepudiation, integrity,
and authenticity across those messages.
In fact, there's entire industries
of electronic signatures in jurisdictions
where those are considered valid
that use digital signatures as a method
to confirm that you actually signed the document.
And a use case that I see often in photography
is the concept of watermarking.
By using digital signatures, you could actually ensure
that the photo that you took is yours
and you can use that watermark to also ensure
that others aren't stealing your copyrighted work.